---
question: How does Privacy Badger handle social media widgets?
weight: 20
---

Social media widgets (such as the Facebook Like button, Twitter Tweet button, or Google +1 button) often track your reading habits. Even if you don't click them, the social media companies often see exactly which pages you're seeing the widget on. Privacy Badger includes a feature imported from the [ShareMeNot](http://sharemenot.cs.washington.edu/) project which is able to replace the widgets with a stand-in version, so that you can still see and click them. You will not be tracked by these replacements unless you explicitly choose to click them. Privacy Badger currently knows how to replace the following widgets if they are observed tracking you: AddThis, Facebook, Google, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Stumbleupon, and Twitter. (The source code for these replacements is [here](https://github.com/EFForg/privacybadger/blob/master/src/data/socialwidgets.json); pull requests are welcome.)

Note that Privacy Badger will not replace social media widgets unless it has blocked the associated tracker. If you're seeing real social media widgets, it generally means that Privacy Badger hasn't detected tracking from that variant of the widget, or that the site you're looking at has implemented its own version of the widget. To avoid confusion, the replacement widgets are marked with the Privacy Badger badge next to the button. To interact with a replacement widget, simply click on it. Depending on the widget, Privacy Badger will either send you directly to the appropriate sharing page (for example, to post a tweet) or it will enable and load the real social widget (for example, the Facebook Like button, with personalized information about how many of your friends have "liked" the page). In the second case, you will still need to interact with the real widget to "like" or share the page.  
